#DebianDroid

Debian Android app for gsoc2013.

##Possible use cases

 1. Bob takes the train every day, and checks his mail on the ride in, on his Android phone. A lot of Bob's mail is Debian related, containing links to the BTS, PTS, and other related Debian websites. Bob wishes to get the information presented on the site in a way that looks native (and clear to read), as well as cached, since his cell network connection is expensive. Bob may also go through long tunnels without service, where it'd be nice to have an offline copy of things he's been to before.
 2. Anne is a package maintainer of a few Python modules. These modules are not very time intensive, but she wants to keep up with the team. Anne wants to be able to use her phone to get alerts that notify her about the state of the Python modules team, such as new uploads of the Python interpreter, so her packages can be tested for FTBFS bugs. Anne also wishes to use her phone to preform actions on the BTS, such as comment on a bug she knows something about, or mark a bug moreinfo. Anne understands the BTS is based on email.
 3. A sysadmin is in a datacenter with has only their phone. He needs to look up info on bug reports in the kernel because a server won't boot. 
 4. The app will also act as a tool to let people quickly find out their overlapping debian interests at debcamp/debconf or other meetups. If two people meet, they can quickly look up whether the packages they maintain are related at all. For example  maintain fooapp and I meet someone, we break Debiandroid and I quick scan the QRCode generated by the other app. It then shows me that fooapp depends on libbar, and the person I met maintains the libbar package.
 5. A "bug report alarm" button of some sort that will be used when you don't have time to write a full bug report via your smartphone but you are busy and don't want to forget it later on. A quick mobile way to file a pre-bug report so that you have less to do when you get infront of your main workstation.

##Features/todo/requests

 1. Retrieves package/bug info based on package name, bug number, maintainer name etc
 2. Caches retrieved info for specified time and if there is no internet connectivity it returns the cached content automatically
 3. Swipe left/right to move around menu items
 4. Opens links from other apps (e.g. browser or mail app) to http://bugs.debian.org and http://packages.qa.debian.org natively in the debiandroid app in the corresponding app 
 5. Finds overlapping debian interests between maintainers (use case 4) [in the making]
 6. Notifies user about new mails in bug reports he made, he contributed to or in bugs he is subscribed to and about new package news to packages he maintains or is subscribed to etc [in the making]
 7. Allows you to send a new bug report for a package (by redirecting you to your mail app with some preconfigured fields like from, to, subject etc) or to respond to a mail in an existing bug report by long pressing on that mail and then redirecting you again to your mail app.
 8. Alerts you about a bug report you wanted to send, like a "bug report" reminder. Maybe with a button like "report bug in x time" [todo]
 9. Swiping from a package you just searched in the pts menu item to the bts menu item will instantly load the searched packages bugs
 11. Clicking on a package name in the package binaries will load info on that package [todo]
 12. Notify user if internet connection stops working and the use of 3g is deactivated. [todo]
 13. If "use 3g" settings is false detect if 3g is used and deactivate online searching then by settings cache to always return something [todo]
 14. Translate to other languages. Easy if all string are gathered in values/strings.xml [in the making]
 15. Widget in homescreen displays next DInstall time + remaining hours till that time
 16. Full-text search on package names like in http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=%s
 17. Show contents of a package like in http://packages.debian.org/sid/i386//filelist
 18. Tell which package a certain file is in: http://packages.debian.org/search?searchon=contents&keywords=&
 19. Show Debian Developer Package Overview: http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login= in a native ui instead of redirecting to browser [todo]
 20. Show all versions of a source package (with arch and stuff): http://qa.debian.org/madison.php?package=%s&table=all
 21. Show new queue: http://ftp-master.debian.org/new.html
 22. Show links to mailing list archives: https://lists.debian.org/debian-%s/recent
 23. Add a alarm for wnpp (BTS; packages that are to be removed; watching for ITP bugs, etc.)

 
##Documentation

###ActionBarSherlock installation

 1. Add the actionbarsherlock/ subdirectory downloaded from the official site to the directory of DebianDroid
 2. Import the project as a new android application to eclipse
 3. Add the newly created project as a library to DebianDroid via right click to Debiandroid->properties->Android tab->Add... in Library section
 4. Delete the libs/android-support-v4.jar since it's now in actionbarsherlock/libs/ and change the DebianDroid properties->Java Build Path->Android Dependencies to point to that .jar instead of /libs because otherwise there will be a conflict between the two. Add it as a seperate .jar if no other way works.
 5. Make sure you ticked the correct files to export in the "Order and export" tab in the Java Build Path
 6. Change all occurences of Activity, FragmentActivity, Fragment, ListFragment etc to SherlockActivity, SherlockFragment etc...
 7. Change all styles.xml to use as a parent theme the "@style/Theme.Sherlock.Light.DarkActionBar"
 8. Clean, build, deploy

 ###ZXing installation

 1. Download core.jar from the official zxing site
 2. Add it to /libs and make sure it's exported along with the other libs in your projects Preferences->Java Build Path->Order and Export
 3. Download the zxing.zip source code
 4. Add the source from the android-integration/ subfolder to /src/com/google/zxing/integration/android/ 
 5. Add code to create/read qrcodes and clean, build and deploy project

##License

    DebianDroid is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
    
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.
    
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
